docs/source/usecases/VirtualFunctions.md, before:

# Virtual Functions

Due to oddities of GPU programming, the use of virtual functions in Kokkos parallel regions can be complicated. This document describes the problems you're likely to face, where they come from, and how to work around them.

## The Problem

In GPU programming, you might have run into the bug of calling a host function from the device. A similar thing can happen for subtle reasons in code using virtual functions. Consider the following code

```c++
class ClassWithVirtualFunctions : public SomeBase {
  /** fields */
  public:
  KOKKOS_FUNCTION virtual void virtualFunction(){
    // TODO: implement all of physics
  }
};

ClassWithVirtualFunctions* hostClassInstance = new hostClassInstance();
ClassWithVirtualFunction*  deviceClassInstance;
cudaMalloc((void**)&deviceClassInstance, sizeof(ClassWithVirtualFunction));
cudaMemcpy(deviceClassInstance, hostClassInstance, sizeof(ClassWithVirtualFunction), cudaMemcpyHostToDevice);

Kokkos::parallel_for("DeviceKernel", SomeCudaPolicy, KOKKOS_LAMBDA(const int i) {
  deviceClassInstance->virtualFunction();
});
```

At a glance this should be fine, we've made a device instance of a class, copied the contents of a host instance into it, and then used it. This code will typically crash, however, because `virtualFunction` will call a host version of the function. To understand why, you'll need to understand a bit about how virtual functions are implemented.

## V-Tables, V-Pointers, V-ery annoying with GPUs

Virtual functions allow a program to handle Derived classes through a pointer to their Base class and have things work as they should. To make this work, the compiler needs some way to identify whether a pointer which is nominally to a Base class really is a pointer to the Base, or whether it's really a pointer to any Derived class. This happens through VPointers and VTables. For every class with virtual functions, there is one VTable shared among all instances, this table contains function pointers for all the virtual functions the class implements.

![VTable](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wiki/kokkos/kokkos/UseCases/VirtualFunctions-VTables.png)

Okay, so now we have VTables, if a class knows what type it is it could call the correct function. But how does it know?

Remember that we have one VTable shared amongst all instances of a type. Each instance, however, has a hidden member called the VPointer, which on initialization the compiler points at the correct table. So a call to a virtual function simply dereferences that pointer, and then indexes into the VTable to find the precise virtual function called.

![VPointer](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wiki/kokkos/kokkos/UseCases/VirtualFunctions-VPointers.png)

Now that we know what the compiler is doing to implement virtual functions, we'll look at why it doesn't work with GPU's

Credit: the content of this section is adapted from Pablo Arias [here](https://pabloariasal.github.io/2017/06/10/understanding-virtual-tables/ )

## Then why doesn't my code work?

The reason the intro code might break is that when dealing with GPU-compatible classes with virtual functions, there isn't one VTable, but two. The first has the host versions of the virtual functions, while the second has the device functions. We're initializing the class on the host, so it points to the host VTable.

Our cudaMemcpy faithfully copied all the members of the class, including the VPointer merrily pointing at host functions, which we then call on the device.

## How to fix this

The problem here is that we are initializing the class on the Host. If we were initializing on the Device, we'd get the correct VPointer, and thus the correct functions. In pseudocode, we want to move from

```c++
Instance* hostInstance = new Instance(); // allocate and initialize host
Instance* deviceInstance; // cudaMalloc'd to allocate
cudaMemcpy(deviceInstance, hostInstance); // to initialize the deivce
Kokkos::parallel_for(... {
  // use deviceInstance
});
```

To one where we initialize on the device using a technique called `placement new`

```c++
Instance* deviceInstance; // cudaMalloc'd to allocate it
Kokkos::parallel_for(... {
  new((Instance*)deviceInstance) Instance(); // initialize an instance, and place the result in the pointer deviceInstance
});
```

This code is extremely ugly, but leads to a properly initialized instance of the class. Note that like with other uses of `new`, you need to later `free` the memory

For a full working example, see [the example in the repo](https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos/blob/master/example/virtual_functions/main.cpp).

## Complications and Fixes

The first problem people run into with this is that they want to initialize some fields or nested classes based on host data before moving data down to the device

```c++
Instance* hostInstance = new Instance(); // allocate and initialize host
hostInstance->setAField(someHostValue);
Instance* deviceInstance; // cudaMalloc'd to allocate
cudaMemcpy(deviceInstance, hostInstance); // to initialize the deivce
Kokkos::parallel_for(... {
  // use deviceInstance
});
```

We can't translate this easily, the naive translation would be

```c++
Instance* deviceInstance; // cudaMalloc'd to allocate it
Kokkos::parallel_for(... {
  new((Instance*)deviceInstance) Instance(); // initialize an instance, and place the result in the pointer deviceInstance
  deviceInstance->setAField(someHostValue);
});
```

Which would crash for accessing the host value `someHostValue` on the device. The most productive solution we've found in these cases is to allocate the class in UVM, initialize it on the device, and then fill in fields on the host. To wit:

```c++
Instance* deviceInstance = Kokkos::kokkos_malloc<Kokkos::CudaUVMSpace>(sizeof(Instance));
Kokkos::parallel_for(... {
  new((Instance*)deviceInstance) Instance(); // initialize an instance, and place the result in the pointer deviceInstance
});
deviceInstance->setAField(someHostValue); // set some field on the host
```

This is the solution that the code teams we have talked to have said is the most productive way to solve the problem.

## But what if I do not really need the V-Tables on the device side?

The performance critical part of a code might not use pointers to base class and dynamic polymorphism to compute a result from data.
Thus, the device might not need to have a working virtual function table.
Consider the following example:
```c++
struct Interface
{
    KOKKOS_DEFAULTED_FUNCTION
    virtual ~Interface() = default;

    KOKKOS_FUNCTION
    virtual void operator()( const size_t) const = 0;
};

struct Implementation : public Interface
{
    KOKKOS_FUNCTION
    void operator()(const size_t i) const override
    { ... }

    void apply(){
        Kokkos::parallel_for("myLoop",10,
            KOKKOS_CLASS_LAMBDA (const size_t i) { this->operator()(i); }
        );}
};

int main ()
{
    ... 
    auto implementationPtr_h = std::make_shared<Implementation>();
    implementationPtr_h->apply();
}
```
### What is the problem?

Inside the `parallel_for` the `operator()` is called which is marked `override`.
On ROCm 5.2 this results in a memory access violation.
When executing the `this->operator()(i,v)` call, the runtime looks into the V-Table and dereferences a host pointer on the device.

### But if that is the case, why does it work with NVCC?

Notice, that the `parallel_for` is called from a pointer of type `Implementation` and not a pointer of type `Interface` pointing to an `Implementation` object.
Thus, no V-Table lookup for the `operator()` would be necessary as it can be deduced from the context of the call that it will be the `operator()` in the class `Interface`.
But here it comes down to how the compiler handles the lookup. NVCC understands that the call is coming from an `Implementation` object and thinks: "Oh, I see, that you are calling from an `Implementation` object, I know it will be the `operator()` in this class scope, I will do this for you".
ROCm, on the other hand, sees your call and thinks “Oh, this is a call to a virtual method, I will look that up for you” - failing to read from the virtual function table, as it is containing host addresses.

### How to solve this?
Strictly speaking, the observed behavior on NVCC is an optimization that uses the context information to avoid the V-Table lookup.
If the compiler does not apply this optimization, you can help in different ways by providing additional information. 

- Changing the `override` to `final` on the `operator()` in the `Implementation` class. This tells the compiler the `operator()` is not changing in derived objects and thus it knows which one to call without the V-Table. Nevertheless, this also prevents any overloads of `operator()` in classes derived from `Implementation`.
- Similarly, the entire derived class `Implementation` can be marked `final`. It has the same effect just for the entire class scope.
- Tell the compiler not to look up any function name when calling `operator()` by using [qualified name lookup](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/qualified_lookup). For this, you tell the compiler which function you want by spelling out the class namespace e.g. `this->Implementation::operator() (i,v);`.

## Questions/Follow-up

This is intended to be an educational resource for our users. If something doesn't make sense, or you have further questions, you'd be doing us a favor by letting us know on [Slack](https://kokkosteam.slack.com) or [GitHub](https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos)

Commit message:

update to include that marking final is compiler dependent in the result

docs/source/usecases/VirtualFunctions.md, after:

# Virtual Functions

Due to oddities of GPU programming, the use of virtual functions in Kokkos parallel regions can be complicated. This document describes the problems you're likely to face, where they come from, and how to work around them.

## The Problem

In GPU programming, you might have run into the bug of calling a host function from the device. A similar thing can happen for subtle reasons in code using virtual functions. Consider the following code

```c++
class ClassWithVirtualFunctions : public SomeBase {
  /** fields */
  public:
  KOKKOS_FUNCTION virtual void virtualFunction(){
    // TODO: implement all of physics
  }
};

ClassWithVirtualFunctions* hostClassInstance = new hostClassInstance();
ClassWithVirtualFunction*  deviceClassInstance;
cudaMalloc((void**)&deviceClassInstance, sizeof(ClassWithVirtualFunction));
cudaMemcpy(deviceClassInstance, hostClassInstance, sizeof(ClassWithVirtualFunction), cudaMemcpyHostToDevice);

Kokkos::parallel_for("DeviceKernel", SomeCudaPolicy, KOKKOS_LAMBDA(const int i) {
  deviceClassInstance->virtualFunction();
});
```

At a glance this should be fine, we've made a device instance of a class, copied the contents of a host instance into it, and then used it. This code will typically crash, however, because `virtualFunction` will call a host version of the function. To understand why, you'll need to understand a bit about how virtual functions are implemented.

## V-Tables, V-Pointers, V-ery annoying with GPUs

Virtual functions allow a program to handle Derived classes through a pointer to their Base class and have things work as they should. To make this work, the compiler needs some way to identify whether a pointer which is nominally to a Base class really is a pointer to the Base, or whether it's really a pointer to any Derived class. This happens through VPointers and VTables. For every class with virtual functions, there is one VTable shared among all instances, this table contains function pointers for all the virtual functions the class implements.

![VTable](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wiki/kokkos/kokkos/UseCases/VirtualFunctions-VTables.png)

Okay, so now we have VTables, if a class knows what type it is it could call the correct function. But how does it know?

Remember that we have one VTable shared amongst all instances of a type. Each instance, however, has a hidden member called the VPointer, which on initialization the compiler points at the correct table. So a call to a virtual function simply dereferences that pointer, and then indexes into the VTable to find the precise virtual function called.

![VPointer](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wiki/kokkos/kokkos/UseCases/VirtualFunctions-VPointers.png)

Now that we know what the compiler is doing to implement virtual functions, we'll look at why it doesn't work with GPU's

Credit: the content of this section is adapted from Pablo Arias [here](https://pabloariasal.github.io/2017/06/10/understanding-virtual-tables/ )

## Then why doesn't my code work?

The reason the intro code might break is that when dealing with GPU-compatible classes with virtual functions, there isn't one VTable, but two. The first has the host versions of the virtual functions, while the second has the device functions. We're initializing the class on the host, so it points to the host VTable.

Our cudaMemcpy faithfully copied all the members of the class, including the VPointer merrily pointing at host functions, which we then call on the device.

## How to fix this

The problem here is that we are initializing the class on the Host. If we were initializing on the Device, we'd get the correct VPointer, and thus the correct functions. In pseudocode, we want to move from

```c++
Instance* hostInstance = new Instance(); // allocate and initialize host
Instance* deviceInstance; // cudaMalloc'd to allocate
cudaMemcpy(deviceInstance, hostInstance); // to initialize the deivce
Kokkos::parallel_for(... {
  // use deviceInstance
});
```

To one where we initialize on the device using a technique called `placement new`

```c++
Instance* deviceInstance; // cudaMalloc'd to allocate it
Kokkos::parallel_for(... {
  new((Instance*)deviceInstance) Instance(); // initialize an instance, and place the result in the pointer deviceInstance
});
```

This code is extremely ugly, but leads to a properly initialized instance of the class. Note that like with other uses of `new`, you need to later `free` the memory

For a full working example, see [the example in the repo](https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos/blob/master/example/virtual_functions/main.cpp).

## Complications and Fixes

The first problem people run into with this is that they want to initialize some fields or nested classes based on host data before moving data down to the device

```c++
Instance* hostInstance = new Instance(); // allocate and initialize host
hostInstance->setAField(someHostValue);
Instance* deviceInstance; // cudaMalloc'd to allocate
cudaMemcpy(deviceInstance, hostInstance); // to initialize the deivce
Kokkos::parallel_for(... {
  // use deviceInstance
});
```

We can't translate this easily, the naive translation would be

```c++
Instance* deviceInstance; // cudaMalloc'd to allocate it
Kokkos::parallel_for(... {
  new((Instance*)deviceInstance) Instance(); // initialize an instance, and place the result in the pointer deviceInstance
  deviceInstance->setAField(someHostValue);
});
```

Which would crash for accessing the host value `someHostValue` on the device. The most productive solution we've found in these cases is to allocate the class in UVM, initialize it on the device, and then fill in fields on the host. To wit:

```c++
Instance* deviceInstance = Kokkos::kokkos_malloc<Kokkos::CudaUVMSpace>(sizeof(Instance));
Kokkos::parallel_for(... {
  new((Instance*)deviceInstance) Instance(); // initialize an instance, and place the result in the pointer deviceInstance
});
deviceInstance->setAField(someHostValue); // set some field on the host
```

This is the solution that the code teams we have talked to have said is the most productive way to solve the problem.

## But what if I do not really need the V-Tables on the device side?

The performance critical part of a code might not use pointers to base class and dynamic polymorphism to compute a result from data.
Thus, the device might not need to have a working virtual function table.
Consider the following example:
```c++
struct Interface
{
    KOKKOS_DEFAULTED_FUNCTION
    virtual ~Interface() = default;

    KOKKOS_FUNCTION
    virtual void operator()( const size_t) const = 0;
};

struct Implementation : public Interface
{
    KOKKOS_FUNCTION
    void operator()(const size_t i) const override
    { ... }

    void apply(){
        Kokkos::parallel_for("myLoop",10,
            KOKKOS_CLASS_LAMBDA (const size_t i) { this->operator()(i); }
        );}
};

int main ()
{
    ... 
    auto implementationPtr_h = std::make_shared<Implementation>();
    implementationPtr_h->apply();
}
```
### What is the problem?

Inside the `parallel_for` the `operator()` is called which is marked `override`.
On ROCm 5.2 this results in a memory access violation.
When executing the `this->operator()(i,v)` call, the runtime looks into the V-Table and dereferences a host pointer on the device.

### But if that is the case, why does it work with NVCC?

Notice, that the `parallel_for` is called from a pointer of type `Implementation` and not a pointer of type `Interface` pointing to an `Implementation` object.
Thus, no V-Table lookup for the `operator()` would be necessary as it can be deduced from the context of the call that it will be the `operator()` in the class `Interface`.
But here it comes down to how the compiler handles the lookup. NVCC understands that the call is coming from an `Implementation` object and thinks: "Oh, I see, that you are calling from an `Implementation` object, I know it will be the `operator()` in this class scope, I will do this for you".
ROCm, on the other hand, sees your call and thinks “Oh, this is a call to a virtual method, I will look that up for you” - failing to read from the virtual function table, as it is containing host addresses.

### How to solve this?
Strictly speaking, the observed behavior on NVCC is an optimization that uses the context information to avoid the V-Table lookup.
If the compiler does not apply this optimization, you can help in different ways by providing additional information. 

- Tell the compiler not to look up any function name in the V-Table when calling `operator()` by using [qualified name lookup](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/qualified_lookup). For this, you tell the compiler which function you want by spelling out the class namespace e.g. `this->Implementation::operator() (i,v);`. This behavior is specified in the C++-Standard.
- Changing the `override` to `final` on the `operator()` in the `Implementation` class. This tells the compiler the `operator()` is not changing in derived objects. Many compilers do use this in optimization and deduce which function to call without the V-Table. Nevertheless, this might only work with certain compilers, as this effect of adding `final` is not specified in the C++-Standard. 
- Similarly, the entire derived class `Implementation` can be marked `final`. This is compiler dependent, too for the same reasons.

## Questions/Follow-up

This is intended to be an educational resource for our users. If something doesn't make sense, or you have further questions, you'd be doing us a favor by letting us know on [Slack](https://kokkosteam.slack.com) or [GitHub](https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos)
