## Scope of Kokkos Testing

Software testing accompanies all development activities and is performed by each Kokkos developer in their work flow. Daily tasks include implementation of new features, debugging, development of test problems, user support and documentation. A critical consideration for Kokkos integration into a host code is performance improvement; this necessitates identification of and improvement of Kokkos algorithms performance characteristics through testing.  An algorithm is presumed to have “failed” if it leads to a slow-down in performance. An additional consideration in the daily Kokkos workflow is maintenance of the quality/integrity of Kokkos software. This is addressed by creating levels of approval that govern when and how algorithms may be modified and created. An important requirement for committing to the development branch of Kokkos (develop) is code review and algorithm testing; all tests must pass at a designated level. (own hardware? a few platforms? all platforms?) The most rigorous testing is conducted for promotion of a fully-tested and clean develop branch into the Kokkos host software project, i.e, Trilinos. The **Kokkos Promotion Testing** section (to follow) is devoted to this most important exercise in the Kokkos workflow.

This section of the Testing description develops the primary focus of the document, the Kokkos Testing Workflow. It includes the multiple testing tasks the Kokkos team performs as outlined above. Two important aspects of the workflow are described first as these are the foundational elements of a developer’s daily tasks; these are the **Git Terminology and Kokkos Branches** and the **Kokkos Test Scripts**. Following these sections, Developer Daily Tasks can be described more easily. Finally, the all-important **Promotion Testing** is presented in detail as this task must be performed exactly as described for a successful promotion of bug fixes and new features into the hands of host code developers.

## Git Repository Terminology and Kokkos Branches

In Git, a branch is a divergence from the main (or master) line of a software repository; it is where most of the development takes place. The Kokkos team uses two main Git branches in its software development process: Kokkos *Master* and *develop*. Other branches will exist during a development cycle, e.g. *issue-865* or *array-bounds*, but the above are the branches of interest when merging changes into the master repository. The other development branches (e.g., *issue-865*) are committed to the develop branch with a pull request to become integrated into the *develop* branch set of working changes for the development cycle.

## Description of the Kokkos Testing Scripts

This section provides a functional description of the scripts identified in the **Test Scripts** section above. The role of each script in the Kokkos workflow is described.

* **kokkos/scripts/testing_scripts/jenkins_test_driver** Jenkins is a continuous integration tool that can be triggered to perform software builds and/or tests or can be run in a cron-based mode. This script accepts a build-type and host-compiler input to launch a build and run job on a target machine having created a makefile using generate_makefile.bash.  Jenkins results for a configure, build and test step can be examined in the output and is available through a dashboard.

* **kokkos/generate_makefile.bash**  Given a set of options, this shell script generates a Makefile to run a set of tests. The options to be specified include the devices (i.e., the execution space), the architecture, the compiler and compiler flags for the Kokkos library, and a few other settings. With the specified settings, a Makefile is created that will build and run the tests identified in Section Test Descriptions. 

* **kokkos/config/test-all-sandia**   A shell script that is run on a select machine for a select group of compilers and for the machine architecture.  The script accepts a set of options that define the specific results desired for a particular run.  For the machine this script is running on, the set of available compilers for the machines architecture will be run and the results processed. It can also run “spot checks,” a select subset of compilers for machines Apollos and Kokkos-dev.

* **kokkos/scripts/trilinos-integration/checkin-test**  this script loads a set of SEMS modules for a trilinos checkinTest. This latter test (script) does not exist in the Kokkos repository at this time.

* **kokkos/scripts/testing_scripts/test_kokkos_master_develop_promotion.sh**  [not used ??] For a specific set of parameters – backend, module, compiler, CxxFlags, architecture, kokkos options, cudea options, and HWLOC – a makefile is crated using generate_makefile.sh. [this makefile script is not the same as mentioned above with a .bash extension]

* **kokkos/scripts/trilinos-integration/prepare_trilinos_repos.sh**  This bash script defines a set of environment variables for the two checkouts of trilinos necessary to perform the trilinos testing that precedes promotion of an updated Kokkos into the Trilinos repository. The environment variables are paths that point to the “pristine” trilinos branch and to the “updated” trilinos branch that contains a snapshot of the Kokkos develop branch into the Trilinos develop branch. This is the initial step preceding the trilinos integration tests that will take place on platforms Shepard and White. (See next scripts.)

* **kokkos/scripts/snapshot.py**  In Git terminology, a snapshot is a copy of an entire software repository at a specific point in time (defined by its SHA-1). This is a python script that takes a snapshot of one repository and performs the necessary repository actions to merge it into another repository at a specific point in history while generating a commit message for the git process to accomplish this joining operation.

* **kokkos/scripts/trilinos-integration/ 
shepard_jenkins_run_script_pthread_intel  &  shepard_jenkins_run_script_serial_intel**  loading a particular module for platform Shepard and the set of environment variables that point to the pristine and updated trilinos branches, these scripts set up and run a pthreads and serial version of the trilinos checkin tests. Build flags for the appropriate Kokkos backends are set along with build flags and Kokkos cloned if necessary. Tests are run using scripts developed by the Sandia SEMS team and results are compared. 

* **kokkos/scripts/trilinos-integration/white_run_jenkins_script_cuda & white_run_jenkins_script_omp**  as for the trilinos tests on Shepard, these are on platform White to test different compilers and architecture. Similar setup of flags, backends and libraries precede submission of batch jobs to run using the SEMS-developed scripts. test results are reported as for the tests on Shepard.


## Kokkos Developmental Testing (Daily Tasks)

## Kokkos Promotion Testing

Promotion testing refers to the process established that leads to integration of the stand-alone version of the Kokkos software back into the parent Trilinos software as a package (the basic unit of identity in Trilinos). The promotion testing process was developed to satisfy the requirements for pushing Kokkos software updates into Trilinos with the confidence that these updates will not adversely affect the integrity of other packages that depend on Kokkos, nor will it adversely affect the Trilinos software repository itself.

Promotion testing is conducted at four to eight week intervals (depending on Kokkos team commits and commitments). In Git parlance, the two important branches are develop and master. The develop branch is the remote repository to which accepted upgrades/improvements and bug-fixes are committed; origin/master is the primary remote branch of Kokkos, the pristine version of the software, that serves as the source for cloning of the repository. It is the branch from which all forks and clones take place. It is also the version of Kokkos that will be integrated back into Trilinos during the promotion process. For this promotion to take place, the develop branch of Kokkos must first pass all Kokkos tests.  Satisfactorily completed, Kokkos develop branch will be snapshotted (re-integrated) into a develop branch of Trilinos and then ran through the appropriate set of Trilinos tests. When completed satisfactorily (i.e., it has been determined that Kokkos does not produce any additional failures or differences in Trilinos test results), this testing will lead to a (git) push of the Kokkos develop branch into Trilinos and then into Kokkos master.

Promotion testing extends the baseline testing accomplished by developers, which may be limited in platform and compiler scope, to include the full set of develop branch changes, all supported compilers, and all platform architectures and execution spaces. This is the essence of the promotion testing, extending the coverage to heterogeneous combinations of CPUs, GPUs and accelerators. For this effort, a set of test scripts are utilized, described next.

Testing protocols are built into a series of scripted processes written in shell-script or python. First are the scripts generate_makefile.bash and test_all_sandia. The bulk of the Kokkos testing is conducted using the latter script, test_all_sandia. This script tests multiple compilers on a given platform. During promotion testing, generate_makefile.bash is frequently used for re-testing, a vehicle for checking results on a specific platform that have failed and require closer examination. Upon successful (all PASS) completion of the Kokkos testing, integration testing can commence. Integration testing commences using the Kokkos repository scripts located in kokkos/config/trilinos-integration. These scripts run tests on a develop branch of Trilinos that has a develop branch of Kokkos inserted as the Kokkos package software. This process of inserting Kokkos into the Trilinos repository is called snapshotting since it takes the Kokkos develop snapshot and places it into the Trilinos develop repository snapshot; this uses the Python script ( kokkos/config ) snapshot.py. A textual description of the snapshot process itself is contained in file ( kokkos/ ) HOW_TO_SNAPSHOT; the details are left to the reader.

The (work) process of testing, snapshotting, testing and committing to Trilinos and pushing to (Kokkos) Master is best described in the (outline) document kokkos-promotion.txt 
