# Introduction

Kokkos is a library of C++ templated macros that enable the construction of thread-scalable parallel patterns for data on many machine architectures.  When Kokkos is integrated into the flow of host software programs and compiled for modern architectures, improved performance of the computational kernels can be realized. The measurement and expectations of performance benefits from Kokkos integration is dependent on code structure, data layout and the extent of kernel parallelization that exists in a code prior to integration with kokkos. Testing with profiling is part of the process of identifying when and where performance improvements can be realized.

This document presents a summary of the Kokkos testing activities in its variety and extent. Special focus is given to the components of promotion testing, describing the stages of the test process by which the develop branch of Kokkos (containing the latest set of software improvements and bug fixes) are pushed into a tagged Kokkos Master branch and then into the Trilinos Master repository (Kokkos is a Trilinos package). This process is woven into and dependent on our chosen repository management software Git (https://guides.github.com/activities/hello-world). The description of the promotion workflow includes details of the many-step process, including the git commands that are integral to the promotion process.

The Kokkos repository is located on Github (https://github.com/github/kokkos/kokkos.git); scripts and tools that control/drive the testing of Kokkos are contained primarily in source directory kokkos/script, and in particular subdirectory kokkos/script/trilinos-integration. The essential components of the testing process are described in file kokkos-promotion.txt ; it presents a detailed description of the steps to accomplish the promotion.
