docs/source/API/core/macros-special/if_on_host_or_device.rst, before:

.. _kokkos_if_on_host_device_macros:

=================================================
``KOKKOS_IF_ON_HOST`` and ``KOKKOS_IF_ON_DEVICE``
=================================================

.. role:: cpp(code)
   :language: cpp

Overview
========
The ``KOKKOS_IF_ON_HOST`` and ``KOKKOS_IF_ON_DEVICE`` macros are a pair of
function-like macros introduced in Kokkos 3.6 that enable **portable
conditional compilation** within a **single ``KOKKOS_FUNCTION`` body**. They
allow you to select which code is compiled and executed based on whether the
function is running on the host (CPU) or a device (GPU, etc.). These macros
provide an alternative to non-portable preprocessor idioms like #ifdef
``__CUDA_ARCH__``.

Motivation
==========
Traditional preprocessor directives like ``#ifdef __CUDA_ARCH__`` rely on a
split compilation model, where host and device code are compiled in separate
passes.  This model is not supported by modern unified compilation approaches,
such as the one used by the NVIDIA HPC compiler (NVC++). As a result, code
written with ``__CUDA_ARCH__`` is not portable across different compilers and
backends.

The ``KOKKOS_IF_ON_HOST`` and ``KOKKOS_IF_ON_DEVICE`` macros solve this
portability problem by allowing the compiler to conditionally compile code
within a single pass, enabling a single code base to be used with a wider range
of compilers and backends.

Usage
=====
These macros are designed to be used within a function decorated with
``KOKKOS_FUNCTION``. They accept a single argument, which is a block of code
enclosed in double parentheses. The code inside the macro's parentheses will
only be compiled and executed on the specified architecture


Signature
---------

.. code-block:: cpp

    KOKKOS_IF_ON_HOST(( /* code to be compiled on the host */ ))
    KOKKOS_IF_ON_DEVICE(( /* code to be compiled on the device */ ))


Example: Host/Device Overloading
--------------------------------

A common use case is to provide different implementations of a function for
host and device execution.

.. code-block:: cpp

    struct MyS { int i; };

    KOKKOS_FUNCTION MyS MakeStruct() {
      // This return statement is only compiled for the host target.
      KOKKOS_IF_ON_HOST((
        return MyS{0};
      ))

      // This return statement is only compiled for the device target.
      KOKKOS_IF_ON_DEVICE((
        return MyS{1};
      ))
    }

Important Considerations
========================

Scope
-----

Each ``KOKKOS_IF_ON_*`` macro introduces a new scope. Any variables declared
within the macro's parentheses are local to that scope and will not be
accessible outside of it.

.. code-block:: cpp

    KOKKOS_IF_ON_HOST((
      int x = 0; // 'x' is only visible within this scope
      std::cout << x << '\n';
    )) // The scope of 'x' ends here.

``constexpr`` Context
---------------------

These macros cannot be used in a context that requires a ``constexpr``
(constant expression).

Best Practices
--------------

**Avoid using these macros whenever possible.**

``KOKKOS_IF_ON_HOST`` and ``KOKKOS_IF_ON_DEVICE`` should be considered a **last
resort** for code differentiation. The primary goal of Kokkos is to achieve
high-performance portability through a unified code base. Relying on these
macros can hinder this goal by introducing host/device-specific logic.

Before using these macros, consider alternative approaches like **partial
template specialization** on execution spaces or using Kokkos's built-in
functionalities, which are designed to be portable across all backends. Using
these macros should be limited to situations where a fundamental difference
between host and device APIs necessitates separate code paths, such as for I/O
operations or specific backend intrinsics.

Commit message:

Per review do not mention NVC++ as CUDA compiler

docs/source/API/core/macros-special/if_on_host_or_device.rst, after:

.. _kokkos_if_on_host_device_macros:

=================================================
``KOKKOS_IF_ON_HOST`` and ``KOKKOS_IF_ON_DEVICE``
=================================================

.. role:: cpp(code)
   :language: cpp

Overview
========
The ``KOKKOS_IF_ON_HOST`` and ``KOKKOS_IF_ON_DEVICE`` macros are a pair of
function-like macros introduced in Kokkos 3.6 that enable **portable
conditional compilation** within a **single ``KOKKOS_FUNCTION`` body**. They
allow you to select which code is compiled and executed based on whether the
function is running on the host (CPU) or a device (GPU, etc.). These macros
provide an alternative to non-portable preprocessor idioms like #ifdef
``__CUDA_ARCH__``.

Motivation
==========
Traditional preprocessor directives like ``#ifdef __CUDA_ARCH__`` rely on a
split compilation model, where host and device code are compiled in separate
passes.  While this model is supported by some compilers (like ``nvcc``), it is
not universally portable.  Other modern compilers for GPU-accelerated code,
such as those that support OpenACC or OpenMPTarget, use a unified compilation
approach where both host and device code are compiled in a single pass. As a
result, code written with backend-specific macros is not portable across
different compilers and programming models

The ``KOKKOS_IF_ON_HOST`` and ``KOKKOS_IF_ON_DEVICE`` macros solve this
portability problem by allowing the compiler to conditionally compile code
within a single pass, enabling a single code base to be used with a wider range
of compilers and backends.

Usage
=====
These macros are designed to be used within a function decorated with
``KOKKOS_FUNCTION``. They accept a single argument, which is a block of code
enclosed in double parentheses. The code inside the macro's parentheses will
only be compiled and executed on the specified architecture


Signature
---------

.. code-block:: cpp

    KOKKOS_IF_ON_HOST(( /* code to be compiled on the host */ ))
    KOKKOS_IF_ON_DEVICE(( /* code to be compiled on the device */ ))


Example: Host/Device Overloading
--------------------------------

A common use case is to provide different implementations of a function for
host and device execution.

.. code-block:: cpp

    struct MyS { int i; };

    KOKKOS_FUNCTION MyS MakeStruct() {
      // This return statement is only compiled for the host target.
      KOKKOS_IF_ON_HOST((
        return MyS{0};
      ))

      // This return statement is only compiled for the device target.
      KOKKOS_IF_ON_DEVICE((
        return MyS{1};
      ))
    }

Important Considerations
========================

Scope
-----

Each ``KOKKOS_IF_ON_*`` macro introduces a new scope. Any variables declared
within the macro's parentheses are local to that scope and will not be
accessible outside of it.

.. code-block:: cpp

    KOKKOS_IF_ON_HOST((
      int x = 0; // 'x' is only visible within this scope
      std::cout << x << '\n';
    )) // The scope of 'x' ends here.

``constexpr`` Context
---------------------

These macros cannot be used in a context that requires a ``constexpr``
(constant expression).

Best Practices
--------------

**Avoid using these macros whenever possible.**

``KOKKOS_IF_ON_HOST`` and ``KOKKOS_IF_ON_DEVICE`` should be considered a **last
resort** for code differentiation. The primary goal of Kokkos is to achieve
high-performance portability through a unified code base. Relying on these
macros can hinder this goal by introducing host/device-specific logic.

Before using these macros, consider alternative approaches like **partial
template specialization** on execution spaces or using Kokkos's built-in
functionalities, which are designed to be portable across all backends. Using
these macros should be limited to situations where a fundamental difference
between host and device APIs necessitates separate code paths, such as for I/O
operations or specific backend intrinsics.
