docs/source/contributing.rst, before:

Contributing
============

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :hidden:

   templates/index
   developer-guides/index
   testing-and-issue-tracking

We welcome external contributions. Please `open an issue
<https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos/issues>`_ to discuss your changes
first—especially for larger features—and submit your pull request against the
``develop`` branch.
If you are unsure about opening an issue, feel free to `reach out on Slack
<https://kokkos.org/community/chat/#slack>`__ for initial feedback.

Note that by contributing to Kokkos Core, you agree to the **Apache License 2.0
with LLVM Exception**. This allows your contributions to be used in
closed-source commercial contexts. See the `LICENSE <license.html>`__ for
details.

Authors retain copyright on their own contributions.

Contributing Documentation
--------------------------

Please see the `README <https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-core-wiki/blob/main/README.md>`_ for general instructions on building the documentation.

To make it easier to contribute API documentation, we have a page of documentation templates :doc:`here <templates/index>`

Developers' Corner
------------------

* :doc:`Developer Guide  <developer-guides/index>`

* :doc:`Kokkos Planning and Testing <testing-and-issue-tracking>`

Commit message:

Mention DCO requirement when contributing to core

docs/source/contributing.rst, after:

Contributing
============

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :hidden:

   templates/index
   developer-guides/index
   testing-and-issue-tracking

We welcome external contributions. Please `open an issue
<https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos/issues>`_ to discuss your changes
first—especially for larger features—and submit your pull request against the
``develop`` branch.
If you are unsure about opening an issue, feel free to `reach out on Slack
<https://kokkos.org/community/chat/#slack>`__ for initial feedback.

Legal Requirements
------------------
License
^^^^^^^
Note that by contributing to Kokkos Core, you agree to the **Apache License 2.0
with LLVM Exception**. This allows your contributions to be used in
closed-source commercial contexts. See the `LICENSE <license.html>`__ for
details. Authors retain copyright on their own contributions.

Developer Certificate of Origin (DCO)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
To ensure clear chain of custody for open-source software, we require all
contributions to be "signed off" according to the `Developer Certificate of
Origin <https://developercertificate.org/>`_.

By adding a ``Signed-off-by`` line to your commit message, you certify that
you have the right to submit the work under the project's license. You can
automate this by using the ``-s`` flag when committing:

.. code-block:: bash

   git commit -s -m "My informative commit message"

Contributing Documentation
--------------------------

Please see the `README <https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-core-wiki/blob/main/README.md>`_ for general instructions on building the documentation.

To make it easier to contribute API documentation, we have a page of documentation templates :doc:`here <templates/index>`

Developers' Corner
------------------

* :doc:`Developer Guide  <developer-guides/index>`

* :doc:`Kokkos Planning and Testing <testing-and-issue-tracking>`
