docs/source/quick_start.rst, before:

Quick Start
============

This guide is intended to jump start new Kokkos users (and beginners, in particular).


Download Latest and Build 
-----------------------------

.. note::

  Please become familiar with `Kokkos Requirements <https://kokkos.org/kokkos-core-wiki/requirements.html>`_, and verify that your machine has all necessary compilers, backend SDK and build system components.


..
 Nota bene:  the link for "Latest" should be stable from one release to the next, but check periodically to be sure 
..

:bdg-link-primary:`Latest Release <https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos/releases/latest>`

.. code-block:: sh
  
  # Uncomment according to the type of file you've downloaded (zip or tar)
  unzip kokkos-x.y.z.zip 
  # tar -xzf kokkos-x.y.z.tar.gz
  cd kokkos-x.y.z


Basic Configuration
-------------------

.. note::

  You can create small shell scripts to manage and experiment with configuration details, following the GPU microarchitecture-appropriate examples below.  Upon successful configuration, ``make -j`` to build, and ``make install`` to install.



OpenMP (CPU Parallelism)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: sh

  cmake -B <name-of-build-directory> -DKokkos_ENABLE_OPENMP=ON -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -S <name-of-source-directory>


.. note::

  Kokkos will attempt to autodetect GPU microarchitecture, but it is also possible to specify the desired `GPU architecture <https://kokkos.org/kokkos-core-wiki/keywords.html#gpu-architectures>`_.  In scenarios where a backend (e.g., CUDA, HIP) is enabled, Kokkos will execute serially on the "host" (CPU).  

CUDA (CPU and GPU)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: sh

  cmake -B <name-of-build-directory> -DKokkos_ENABLE_CUDA=ON -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -S <name-of-source-directory>


HIP (CPU and GPU)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: sh

  cmake -B <name-of-build-directory> -DKokkos_ENABLE_HIP=ON -DCMAKE_CXX_COMPILER=hipcc -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -S <name-of-source-directory>


Building and Linking a Kokkos "Hello World"
-------------------------------------------

.. note::

  ``Kokkos_ROOT`` and the root directory for you target backend SDK (i.e., ``CUDA_ROOT``, ``ROCM_PATH``) will need to be set.  ``Kokkos_ROOT`` should be set to the path to your installation.  If a modules environment, the SDK variables will be automatically set upon module loading (e.g., ``module load rocm/5.7.1).  Please see `Build, Install and Use <https://kokkos.org/kokkos-core-wiki/building.html>`_ for additional details.


|br|

.. code-block:: sh

  git clone https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos.git 
  cd example/build_cmake_installed
  TBD/WIP

Getting Help
------------

If you need addtional help getting started, please join the `Kokkos Slack Channel <https://kokkosteam.slack.com>`_.  Here are `sign up details <https://kokkos.org/kokkos-core-wiki/faq.html#faq>`_.  Joining Kokkos Slack is the on ramp for becoming a project contributor.


..
  **THIS IS A COMMENT**
  *TODO*
     - Integrate (merged) Quick Start with Cédric's PR:  https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos/pull/6796
     - Ongoing reconciling with the Julien B. / KUG23- initiated discussion:  https://github.com/kokkos/internal-documents/pull/19
     - Add `git submodule` "how to" for Kokkos
     - Add Quick Start to main Kokkos page, such that it is the first thing you encounter on the landing page (kokkos.org)
     - In V2, put the recipes for the different backends on different pages
     - Julien B. suggested using github templates for the View "Hello World" example
     - Nic M.:  CUDA as a CMake language example (using View): cmake -S . -B build -DKokkos_ENABLE_CUDA=ON CMAKE_CUDA_COMPILER=nvcc Kokkos_ENABLE_COMPILE_AS_CMAKE_LANGUAGE=ON [-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release]
..

Commit message:

quick_start.rst: refer to "example/build_cmake_installed" in Kokkos Core

docs/source/quick_start.rst, after:

Quick Start
============

This guide is intended to jump start new Kokkos users (and beginners, in particular).


Download Latest and Build 
-----------------------------

.. note::

  Please become familiar with `Kokkos Requirements <https://kokkos.org/kokkos-core-wiki/requirements.html>`_, and verify that your machine has all necessary compilers, backend SDK and build system components.


..
 Nota bene:  the link for "Latest" should be stable from one release to the next, but check periodically to be sure 
..

:bdg-link-primary:`Latest Release <https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos/releases/latest>`

.. code-block:: sh
  
  # Uncomment according to the type of file you've downloaded (zip or tar)
  unzip kokkos-x.y.z.zip 
  # tar -xzf kokkos-x.y.z.tar.gz
  cd kokkos-x.y.z


Basic Configuration
-------------------

.. note::

  You can create small shell scripts to manage and experiment with configuration details, following the GPU microarchitecture-appropriate examples below.  Upon successful configuration, ``make -j`` to build, and ``make install`` to install.



OpenMP (CPU Parallelism)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: sh

  cmake -B <name-of-build-directory> -DKokkos_ENABLE_OPENMP=ON -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -S <name-of-source-directory>


.. note::

  Kokkos will attempt to autodetect GPU microarchitecture, but it is also possible to specify the desired `GPU architecture <https://kokkos.org/kokkos-core-wiki/keywords.html#gpu-architectures>`_.  In scenarios where a backend (e.g., CUDA, HIP) is enabled, Kokkos will execute serially on the "host" (CPU).  

CUDA (CPU and GPU)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: sh

  cmake -B <name-of-build-directory> -DKokkos_ENABLE_CUDA=ON -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -S <name-of-source-directory>


HIP (CPU and GPU)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: sh

  cmake -B <name-of-build-directory> -DKokkos_ENABLE_HIP=ON -DCMAKE_CXX_COMPILER=hipcc -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -S <name-of-source-directory>


Building and Linking a Kokkos "Hello World"
-------------------------------------------

.. note::

  ``Kokkos_ROOT`` and the root directory for you target backend SDK (i.e., ``CUDA_ROOT``, ``ROCM_PATH``) will need to be set.  ``Kokkos_ROOT`` should be set to the path of your Kokkos installation.  If a modules environment, the SDK variables will be automatically set upon module loading (e.g., ``module load rocm/5.7.1).  Please see `Build, Install and Use <https://kokkos.org/kokkos-core-wiki/building.html>`_ for additional details.  The example detailed below is in the Kokkos Core `examples` directory.


|br|

.. code-block:: sh

  git clone https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos.git 
  cd example/build_cmake_installed
  cmake -B <build directory> -S . -DKokkos_ROOT=<path-to-installation>
  cd <build directory>
  make -j
  ./example
  


Getting Help
------------

If you need addtional help getting started, please join the `Kokkos Slack Channel <https://kokkosteam.slack.com>`_.  Here are `sign up details <https://kokkos.org/kokkos-core-wiki/faq.html#faq>`_.  Joining Kokkos Slack is the on ramp for becoming a project contributor.


..
  **THIS IS A COMMENT**
  *TODO*
     - Integrate (merged) Quick Start with Cédric's PR:  https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos/pull/6796
     - Ongoing reconciling with the Julien B. / KUG23- initiated discussion:  https://github.com/kokkos/internal-documents/pull/19
     - Add `git submodule` "how to" for Kokkos
     - Add Quick Start to main Kokkos page, such that it is the first thing you encounter on the landing page (kokkos.org)
     - In V2, put the recipes for the different backends on different pages
     - Julien B. suggested using github templates for the View "Hello World" example
     - Nic M.:  CUDA as a CMake language example (using View): cmake -S . -B build -DKokkos_ENABLE_CUDA=ON CMAKE_CUDA_COMPILER=nvcc Kokkos_ENABLE_COMPILE_AS_CMAKE_LANGUAGE=ON [-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release]
..
