docs/source/API/containers/ScatterView.rst, before:

``ScatterView``
===============

.. role:: cppkokkos(code)
	:language: cppkokkos

Header File: ``<Kokkos_ScatterView.hpp>``

.. warning::

   Currently ``ScatterView`` is still in the namespace ``Kokkos::Experimental``


.. _parallelReduce: ../core/parallel-dispatch/parallel_reduce.html

.. |parallelReduce| replace:: :cpp:func:`parallel_reduce`

.. _View: ../core/view/view.html

.. |View| replace:: ``View``

.. |reset| replace:: ``reset()``

.. |access| replace:: ``access()``

.. |contribute| replace:: ``contribute()``

Usage
-----

A Kokkos ScatterView wraps a standard Kokkos::|View|_ and allow access to it either via Atomic or Data Replication based scatter algorithms, choosing the strategy that should be the fastest for the ScatterView Execution Space.

Construction of a ScatterView can be expensive, so you should try to reuse the same one if possible, in which case, you should call |reset|_ between uses.

ScatterView can not be addressed directly: each thread inside a parallel region needs to make a call to |access|_ and access the underlying View through the return value of |access|_.

Following the parallel region, a call to the free function |contribute|_ should be made to perform the final reduction.

Interface
---------
.. code-block:: cpp

    template <typename DataType [, typename Layout [, typename ExecSpace [, typename Op [, typename Duplication [, typename Contribution]]]]]>
    class ScatterView

Parameters
~~~~~~~~~~
Template parameters other than ``DataType`` are optional, but if one is specified, preceding ones must also be specified.
That means for example that ``Op`` can be omitted but if it is specified, ``Layout`` and ``ExecSpace`` must also be specified.

* ``DataType``:
  Works the same as a |View|_'s DataType.

* ``Layout``:

* ``ExecSpace``: Defaults to ``Kokkos::DefaultExecutionSpace``

* ``Op``:
  Can take the values:

  - ``Kokkos::Experimental::ScatterSum``: performs a Sum.

  - ``Kokkos::Experimental::ScatterProd``: performs a Multiplication.

  - ``Kokkos::Experimental::ScatterMin``: takes the min.

  - ``Kokkos::Experimental::ScatterMax``: takes the max.

* ``Duplication``:
  Whether to duplicate the grid or not; defaults to ``Kokkos::Experimental::ScatterDuplicated``, other option is ``Kokkos::Experimental::ScatterNonDuplicated``.

* ``Contribution``:
  Whether to contribute to use atomics; defaults to ``Kokkos::Experimental::ScatterAtomics``, other option is ``Kokkoss::Experimental::ScatterNonAtomic``.

Description
-----------

.. cppkokkos:class:: template <typename DataType, typename Layout, typename ExecSpace, typename Op, typename Duplication, typename Contribution> ScatterView

    .. rubric:: Public Member Variables

    .. cppkokkos:type:: original_view_type

        Type of View passed to ScatterView constructor.

    .. cppkokkos:type:: original_value_type

        Value type of the original_view_type.

    .. cppkokkos:type:: original_reference_type

        Reference type of the original_view_type.

    .. cppkokkos:type:: data_type_info

        DuplicatedDataType, a newly created DataType that has a new runtime dimension which becomes the largest-stride dimension, from the given View DataType.

    .. cppkokkos:type:: internal_data_type

        Value type of data_type_info.

    .. cppkokkos:type:: internal_view_type

        A View type created from the internal_data_type.

    .. rubric:: Constructors

    .. cppkokkos:function:: ScatterView()

        The default constructor. Default constructs members.

    .. cppkokkos:function:: ScatterView(View<RT, RP...> const&)

        Constructor from a ``Kokkos::View``. ``internal_view`` member is copy constructed from this input view.

    .. cppkokkos:function:: ScatterView(std::string const& name, Dims ... dims)

        Constructor from variadic pack of dimension arguments. Constructs ``internal_view`` member.

    .. cppkokkos:function:: ScatterView(ALLOC_PROP const& arg_prop, Dims... dims)

        Constructor from variadic pack of dimension arguments. Constructs ``internal_view`` member.
        This constructor allows passing an object created by ``Kokkos::view_alloc`` as first argument, e.g., for specifying an execution space via
        ``Kokkos::view_alloc(exec_space, "label")``.

    .. rubric:: Public Methods

    .. cppkokkos:function:: constexpr bool is_allocated() const

        :return: true if the ``internal_view`` points to a valid memory location. This function works for both managed and unmanaged views. With the unmanaged view, there is no guarantee that referenced address is valid, only that it is a non-null pointer.

    .. _access:

    .. cppkokkos:function:: access() const

       use within a kernel to return a ``ScatterAccess`` member; this member accumulates a given thread's contribution to the reduction.

    .. cppkokkos:function:: subview() const

        :return: a subview of a ``ScatterView``

    .. cppkokkos:function:: contribute_into(View<DT, RP...> const& dest) const

       contribute ``ScatterView`` array's results into the input View ``dest``

    .. _reset:

    .. cppkokkos:function:: reset()

       performs reset on destination array

    .. cppkokkos:function:: reset_except(View<DT, RP...> const& view)

       tbd

    .. cppkokkos:function:: resize(const size_t n0 = 0, const size_t n1 = 0, const size_t n2 = 0, const size_t n3 = 0, const size_t n4 = 0, const size_t n5 = 0, const size_t n6 = 0, const size_t n7 = 0)

       resize a view with copying old data to new data at the corresponding indices

    .. cppkokkos:function:: realloc(const size_t n0 = 0, const size_t n1 = 0, const size_t n2 = 0, const size_t n3 = 0, const size_t n4 = 0, const size_t n5 = 0, const size_t n6 = 0, const size_t n7 = 0)

       resize a view with discarding old data


    .. rubric:: *Private* Members

    :member: typedef original_view_type internal_view_type;
    :member: internal_view_type internal_view;


.. rubric:: Free Functions

.. _contribute:

.. cppkokkos:function:: contribute(View<DT1, VP...>& dest, Kokkos::Experimental::ScatterView<DT2, LY, ES, OP, CT, DP> const& src)

   convenience function to perform final reduction of ScatterView
   results into a resultant View; may be called following |parallelReduce|_.


Example
-------

.. code-block:: cpp


    #include <Kokkos_Core.hpp>
    #include <Kokkos_ScatterView.hpp>

    KOKKOS_INLINE_FUNCTION int foo(int i) { return i; }
    KOKKOS_INLINE_FUNCTION double bar(int i) { return i*i; }

    int main (int argc, char* argv[]) {
        Kokkos::ScopeGuard guard(argc, argv);

        Kokkos::View<double*> results("results", 1);
        Kokkos::Experimental::ScatterView<double*> scatter(results);
        Kokkos::parallel_for(1, KOKKOS_LAMBDA(int input_i) {
            auto access = scatter.access();
            auto result_i = foo(input_i);
            auto contribution = bar(input_i);
            access(result_i) += contribution;
        });
        Kokkos::Experimental::contribute(results, scatter);
    }

Commit message:

Update doc with info on create_scatter_view()

docs/source/API/containers/ScatterView.rst, after:

``ScatterView``
===============

.. role:: cppkokkos(code)
	:language: cppkokkos

Header File: ``<Kokkos_ScatterView.hpp>``

.. warning::

   Currently ``ScatterView`` is still in the namespace ``Kokkos::Experimental``


.. _parallelReduce: ../core/parallel-dispatch/parallel_reduce.html

.. |parallelReduce| replace:: :cpp:func:`parallel_reduce`

.. _View: ../core/view/view.html

.. |View| replace:: ``View``

.. |reset| replace:: ``reset()``

.. |access| replace:: ``access()``

.. |contribute| replace:: ``contribute()``

.. |create_scatter_view| replace:: ``create_scatter_view()``

Usage
-----

A Kokkos ScatterView serves as an interface for a standard Kokkos::|View|_ and allow access to it either via Atomic or Data Replication based scatter algorithms, choosing the strategy that should be the fastest for the ScatterView Execution Space.

The best option to create a ScatterView is to make a call to the free function Kokkos::Experimental::|create_scatter_view|_.

Construction of a ScatterView can be expensive, so you should try to reuse the same one if possible, in which case, you should call |reset|_ between uses.

ScatterView can not be addressed directly: each thread inside a parallel region needs to make a call to |access|_ and access the underlying View through the return value of |access|_.

Following the parallel region, a call to the free function Kokkos::Experimental::|contribute|_ should be made to perform the final reduction.

Interface
---------
.. code-block:: cpp

    template <typename DataType [, typename Layout [, typename ExecSpace [, typename Operation [, typename Duplication [, typename Contribution]]]]]>
    class ScatterView

Parameters
~~~~~~~~~~
Template parameters other than ``DataType`` are optional, but if one is specified, preceding ones must also be specified.
That means for example that ``Operation`` can be omitted but if it is specified, ``Layout`` and ``ExecSpace`` must also be specified.

* ``DataType``, ``Layout`` and ``ExecSpace`` need to be the same types as the one from the Kokkos::View this ScatterView is interfacing.

* ``Operation``:
  Can take the values:

  - ``Kokkos::Experimental::ScatterSum``: performs a Sum. It is the default value.

  - ``Kokkos::Experimental::ScatterProd``: performs a Multiplication.

  - ``Kokkos::Experimental::ScatterMin``: takes the min.

  - ``Kokkos::Experimental::ScatterMax``: takes the max.

* ``Duplication``:
  Whether to duplicate the grid or not; defaults to ``Kokkos::Experimental::ScatterDuplicated``, other option is ``Kokkos::Experimental::ScatterNonDuplicated``.

* ``Contribution``:
  Whether to contribute to use atomics; defaults to ``Kokkos::Experimental::ScatterAtomics``, other option is ``Kokkoss::Experimental::ScatterNonAtomic``.

Creating a ScatterView with non default ``Operation``, ``Duplication`` or ``Contribution`` using this interface can become complicated, because you need to explicit the exact type for ``DataType``, ``Layout`` and ``ExecSpace``. This is why it is advised that you instead use the function Kokkos::Experimental::|create_scatter_view|_.

Description
-----------

.. cppkokkos:class:: template <typename DataType, typename Layout, typename ExecSpace, typename Op, typename Duplication, typename Contribution> ScatterView

    .. rubric:: Public Member Variables

    .. cppkokkos:type:: original_view_type

        Type of View passed to ScatterView constructor.

    .. cppkokkos:type:: original_value_type

        Value type of the original_view_type.

    .. cppkokkos:type:: original_reference_type

        Reference type of the original_view_type.

    .. cppkokkos:type:: data_type_info

        DuplicatedDataType, a newly created DataType that has a new runtime dimension which becomes the largest-stride dimension, from the given View DataType.

    .. cppkokkos:type:: internal_data_type

        Value type of data_type_info.

    .. cppkokkos:type:: internal_view_type

        A View type created from the internal_data_type.

    .. rubric:: Constructors

    .. cppkokkos:function:: ScatterView()

        The default constructor. Default constructs members.

    .. cppkokkos:function:: ScatterView(View<RT, RP...> const&)

        Constructor from a ``Kokkos::View``. ``internal_view`` member is copy constructed from this input view.

    .. cppkokkos:function:: ScatterView(std::string const& name, Dims ... dims)

        Constructor from variadic pack of dimension arguments. Constructs ``internal_view`` member.

    .. cppkokkos:function:: ScatterView(ALLOC_PROP const& arg_prop, Dims... dims)

        Constructor from variadic pack of dimension arguments. Constructs ``internal_view`` member.
        This constructor allows passing an object created by ``Kokkos::view_alloc`` as first argument, e.g., for specifying an execution space via
        ``Kokkos::view_alloc(exec_space, "label")``.

    .. rubric:: Public Methods

    .. cppkokkos:function:: constexpr bool is_allocated() const

        :return: true if the ``internal_view`` points to a valid memory location. This function works for both managed and unmanaged views. With the unmanaged view, there is no guarantee that referenced address is valid, only that it is a non-null pointer.

    .. _access:

    .. cppkokkos:function:: access() const

       use within a kernel to return a ``ScatterAccess`` member; this member accumulates a given thread's contribution to the reduction.

    .. cppkokkos:function:: subview() const

        :return: a subview of a ``ScatterView``

    .. cppkokkos:function:: contribute_into(View<DT, RP...> const& dest) const

       contribute ``ScatterView`` array's results into the input View ``dest``

    .. _reset:

    .. cppkokkos:function:: reset()

       performs reset on destination array

    .. cppkokkos:function:: reset_except(View<DT, RP...> const& view)

       tbd

    .. cppkokkos:function:: resize(const size_t n0 = 0, const size_t n1 = 0, const size_t n2 = 0, const size_t n3 = 0, const size_t n4 = 0, const size_t n5 = 0, const size_t n6 = 0, const size_t n7 = 0)

       resize a view with copying old data to new data at the corresponding indices

    .. cppkokkos:function:: realloc(const size_t n0 = 0, const size_t n1 = 0, const size_t n2 = 0, const size_t n3 = 0, const size_t n4 = 0, const size_t n5 = 0, const size_t n6 = 0, const size_t n7 = 0)

       resize a view with discarding old data


    .. rubric:: *Private* Members

    :member: typedef original_view_type internal_view_type;
    :member: internal_view_type internal_view;


.. rubric:: Free Functions

.. _create_scatter_view:

.. cppkokkos:function:: template <typename Operation, typename Duplication, typename Contribution> create_scatter_view(const View<DT1, VP...>& view)

   create a new ScatterView interfacing the View ``view``.
   Default value for ``Operation`` is ``Kokkos::Experimental::ScatterSum``, ``Duplication`` and ``Contribution`` are chosen to make the ScatterView as efficient as possible when running on its ``ExecSpace``.

.. _contribute:

.. cppkokkos:function:: contribute(View<DT1, VP...>& dest, Kokkos::Experimental::ScatterView<DT2, LY, ES, OP, CT, DP> const& src)

   convenience function to perform final reduction of ScatterView
   results into a resultant View; may be called following |parallelReduce|_.


Example
-------

.. code-block:: cpp


    #include <Kokkos_Core.hpp>
    #include <Kokkos_ScatterView.hpp>

    KOKKOS_INLINE_FUNCTION int foo(int i) { return i; }
    KOKKOS_INLINE_FUNCTION double bar(int i) { return i*i; }

    int main (int argc, char* argv[]) {
        Kokkos::ScopeGuard guard(argc, argv);

        Kokkos::View<double*> results("results", 1);
        auto scatter = Kokkos::Experimental::create_scatter_view(results);
        Kokkos::parallel_for(1, KOKKOS_LAMBDA(int input_i) {
            auto access = scatter.access();
            auto result_i = foo(input_i);
            auto contribution = bar(input_i);
            access(result_i) += contribution;
        });
        Kokkos::Experimental::contribute(results, scatter);
    }
