docs/source/API/core/view/layoutRight.rst, before:

``LayoutRight``
===============

.. role:: cpp(code)
   :language: cpp

Header File: ``<Kokkos_Core.hpp>``

Usage
-----

.. code-block:: cpp

   Kokkos::View<float*, Kokkos::LayoutRight> my_view;

Description
-----------

.. cpp:struct:: LayoutRight

   When provided to a multidimensional View, lays out memory such that the
   **last index is the contiguous one**. This matches the C conventions for allocations.

   .. rubric:: Nested Typedefs

   .. cpp:type:: array_layout

       A tag signifying that this models the Layout concept.

   .. rubric:: Member Variables

   .. cpp:member:: static constexpr bool is_extent_constructible = true

       A boolean to allow detection that this class is extent constructible.

   .. cpp:member:: size_t dimension[8]

       An array containing the size of each dimension of the Layout.

   .. rubric:: Constructors

   .. cpp:function:: KOKKOS_INLINE_FUNCTION explicit constexpr LayoutRight(size_t N0 = 0, size_t N1 = 0, \
				       size_t N2 = 0, size_t N3 = 0, size_t N4 = 0, \
				       size_t N5 = 0, size_t N6 = 0, size_t N7 = 0)

      Constructor that takes in up to 8 sizes, to set the sizes of the corresponding dimensions of the Layout.

   .. cpp:function:: LayoutRight(LayoutRight const&) = default

       Default copy constructor, element-wise copies the other Layout.

   .. cpp:function:: LayoutRight(LayoutRight&&) = default

       Default move constructor, element-wise moves the other Layout.

   .. rubric:: Assignment operators

   .. cpp:function:: LayoutRight& operator=(LayoutRight const&) = default

       Default copy assignment, element-wise copies the other Layout.

   .. cpp:function:: LayoutRight& operator=(LayoutRight&&) = default

       Default move assignment, element-wise moves the other Layout.

Commit message:

Depracate array_layout in favor of layout_type
Signed-off-by: Jan Ciesko <jan.ciesko@gmail.com>

docs/source/API/core/view/layoutRight.rst, after:

``LayoutRight``
===============

.. role:: cpp(code)
   :language: cpp

Header File: ``<Kokkos_Core.hpp>``

Usage
-----

.. code-block:: cpp

   Kokkos::View<float*, Kokkos::LayoutRight> my_view;

Description
-----------

.. cpp:struct:: LayoutRight

   When provided to a multidimensional View, lays out memory such that the
   **last index is the contiguous one**. This matches the C conventions for allocations.

   .. rubric:: Nested Typedefs

   .. cpp:type:: array_layout

       A tag signifying that this models the Layout concept. (Deprecated since Kokkos 5.0)

   .. cpp:type:: layout_type

       A tag signifying that this models the Layout concept.

   .. rubric:: Member Variables

   .. cpp:member:: static constexpr bool is_extent_constructible = true

       A boolean to allow detection that this class is extent constructible.

   .. cpp:member:: size_t dimension[8]

       An array containing the size of each dimension of the Layout.

   .. rubric:: Constructors

   .. cpp:function:: KOKKOS_INLINE_FUNCTION explicit constexpr LayoutRight(size_t N0 = 0, size_t N1 = 0, \
				       size_t N2 = 0, size_t N3 = 0, size_t N4 = 0, \
				       size_t N5 = 0, size_t N6 = 0, size_t N7 = 0)

      Constructor that takes in up to 8 sizes, to set the sizes of the corresponding dimensions of the Layout.

   .. cpp:function:: LayoutRight(LayoutRight const&) = default

       Default copy constructor, element-wise copies the other Layout.

   .. cpp:function:: LayoutRight(LayoutRight&&) = default

       Default move constructor, element-wise moves the other Layout.

   .. rubric:: Assignment operators

   .. cpp:function:: LayoutRight& operator=(LayoutRight const&) = default

       Default copy assignment, element-wise copies the other Layout.

   .. cpp:function:: LayoutRight& operator=(LayoutRight&&) = default

       Default move assignment, element-wise moves the other Layout.
