API-Reference/Data-Parallelism.md, before:

## Parallel patterns

Parallel execution patterns for composing algorithms.

|Function  |Description                  |
|:---------|:----------------------------|
|[parallel_for](Kokkos%3A%3Aparallel_for) | Executes user code in parallel |
|[parallel_reduce](Kokkos%3A%3Aparallel_reduce)  | Executes user code to perform a reduction in parallel |
|[parallel_scan](Kokkos%3A%3Aparallel_scan)  | Executes user code to generate a prefix sum in parallel |
|[fence](Kokkos%3A%3Afence)  | Fences execution spaces |

## Built-in Reducers

Reducer objects used in conjunction with [parallel_reduce](Kokkos%3A%3Aparallel_reduce).

|Reducer  |Description                  |
|:---------|:----------------------------|
|[BAnd](Kokkos%3A%3ABAnd) | Binary 'And' reduction |
|[BOr](Kokkos%3A%3ABOr) | Binary 'Or' reduction |
|[LAnd](Kokkos%3A%3ALAnd) | Logical 'And' reduction |
|[LOr](Kokkos%3A%3ALOr) | Logical 'Or' reduction |
|[Max](Kokkos%3A%3AMax) | Maximum reduction |
|[MaxLoc](Kokkos%3A%3AMaxLoc) | Reduction providing maximum and an associated index |
|[Min](Kokkos%3A%3AMin) | Minimum reduction |
|[MinLoc](Kokkos%3A%3AMinLoc) | Reduction providing minimum and an associated index |
|[MinMax](Kokkos%3A%3AMinMax) | Reduction providing both minimum and maximum |
|[MinMaxLoc](Kokkos%3A%3AMinMaxLoc) | Reduction providing both minimum and maximum and associated indices |
|[Prod](Kokkos%3A%3AProd) | Multiplicative reduction |
|[Sum](Kokkos%3A%3ASum) | Sum reduction |

## Tags for Team Policy Calculations

Team size (`team_size_max`, `team_size_recommended`) is determined by the particular parallel patttern tag.

|Tag|pattern
|:--------------|:-----------------
[ParallelForTag](ParallelForTag)|parallel\_for
[ParallelReduceTag](ParallelReduceTag)|parallel\_reduce
[ParallelScanTag](ParallelScanTag)|parallel\_scan

Commit message:

Data-Parallelism.md: Following DA comments

API-Reference/Data-Parallelism.md, after:

## Parallel patterns

Parallel execution patterns for composing algorithms.

|Function  |Description                  |
|:---------|:----------------------------|
|[parallel_for](Kokkos%3A%3Aparallel_for) | Executes user code in parallel |
|[parallel_reduce](Kokkos%3A%3Aparallel_reduce)  | Executes user code to perform a reduction in parallel |
|[parallel_scan](Kokkos%3A%3Aparallel_scan)  | Executes user code to generate a prefix sum in parallel |
|[fence](Kokkos%3A%3Afence)  | Fences execution spaces |

## Built-in Reducers

Reducer objects used in conjunction with [parallel_reduce](Kokkos%3A%3Aparallel_reduce).

|Reducer  |Description                  |
|:---------|:----------------------------|
|[BAnd](Kokkos%3A%3ABAnd) | Binary 'And' reduction |
|[BOr](Kokkos%3A%3ABOr) | Binary 'Or' reduction |
|[LAnd](Kokkos%3A%3ALAnd) | Logical 'And' reduction |
|[LOr](Kokkos%3A%3ALOr) | Logical 'Or' reduction |
|[Max](Kokkos%3A%3AMax) | Maximum reduction |
|[MaxLoc](Kokkos%3A%3AMaxLoc) | Reduction providing maximum and an associated index |
|[Min](Kokkos%3A%3AMin) | Minimum reduction |
|[MinLoc](Kokkos%3A%3AMinLoc) | Reduction providing minimum and an associated index |
|[MinMax](Kokkos%3A%3AMinMax) | Reduction providing both minimum and maximum |
|[MinMaxLoc](Kokkos%3A%3AMinMaxLoc) | Reduction providing both minimum and maximum and associated indices |
|[Prod](Kokkos%3A%3AProd) | Multiplicative reduction |
|[Sum](Kokkos%3A%3ASum) | Sum reduction |

## Tags for Team Policy Calculations

The following parallel pattern tags are used to call the correct overload for team size calculations (`team_size_max`,`team_size_recommended`):

|Tag|pattern
|:--------------|:-----------------
[ParallelForTag](ParallelForTag)|parallel\_for
[ParallelReduceTag](ParallelReduceTag)|parallel\_reduce
[ParallelScanTag](ParallelScanTag)|parallel\_scan
