API-Reference/Kokkos::kokkos_malloc.md, before:

# `Kokkos::kokkos_malloc`

Defined in header `<Kokkos_Core.hpp>`

```c++
template <class MemorySpace = typename Kokkos::DefaultExecutionSpace::memory_space>
void* kokkos_malloc(const std:string& label, size_t size);
```

```c++
template <class MemorySpace = typename Kokkos::DefaultExecutionSpace::memory_space>
void* kokkos_malloc(size_t size);
```

Allocate `size` bites of unitialized storage on the specified memory space.

If allocation succeeds, returns a pointer to the lowest (first) byte in the allocated memory block that is suitably aligned for any scalar type.

## Parameters

`label`: A user provided string which is used in profiling and debugging tools via the KokkosP Profiling Tools.  
`size`: The number of bytes to allocate.

## Template parameters

* `MemorySpace`:  Controls the storage location. If omitted the memory space of the default execution space is used (i.e. `Kokkos::DefaultExecutionSpace::memory_space`).

## Return value

On success, returns the pointer to the beginning of newly allocated memory.
To avoid a memory leak, the returned pointer must be deallocated with [`Kokkos::kokkos_free()`](Kokkos%3A%3Akokkos_free) or [`Kokkos::realloc()`](Kokkos%3A%3Akokkos_realloc).

On failure, returns a null pointer.

Commit message:

Document exceptions for dynamic memory management

API-Reference/Kokkos::kokkos_malloc.md, after:

# `Kokkos::kokkos_malloc`

Defined in header `<Kokkos_Core.hpp>`

```c++
template <class MemorySpace = typename Kokkos::DefaultExecutionSpace::memory_space>
void* kokkos_malloc(const std:string& label, size_t size);
```

```c++
template <class MemorySpace = typename Kokkos::DefaultExecutionSpace::memory_space>
void* kokkos_malloc(size_t size);
```

Allocate `size` bites of unitialized storage on the specified memory space.

If allocation succeeds, returns a pointer to the lowest (first) byte in the allocated memory block that is suitably aligned for any scalar type.

If allocation fails, an excpetion of type `Kokkos::Experimental::RawMemoryAllocationFailure` is thrown.

## Parameters

`label`: A user provided string which is used in profiling and debugging tools via the KokkosP Profiling Tools.  
`size`: The number of bytes to allocate.

## Template parameters

* `MemorySpace`:  Controls the storage location. If omitted the memory space of the default execution space is used (i.e. `Kokkos::DefaultExecutionSpace::memory_space`).

## Return value

On success, returns the pointer to the beginning of newly allocated memory.
To avoid a memory leak, the returned pointer must be deallocated with [`Kokkos::kokkos_free()`](Kokkos%3A%3Akokkos_free) or [`Kokkos::realloc()`](Kokkos%3A%3Akokkos_realloc).

## Exceptions

On failure, throws `Kokkos::Experimental::RawMemoryAllocationFailure`.
