docs/source/API/core/policies/TeamPolicy.md, before:

# `TeamPolicy`

Header File: `Kokkos_Core.hpp`

Usage: 
```c++
Kokkos::TeamPolicy<>( league_size, team_size [, vector_length])
Kokkos::TeamPolicy<ARGS>(league_size, team_size [, vector_length])
Kokkos::TeamPolicy<>(Space, league_size, team_size [, vector_length])
Kokkos::TeamPolicy<ARGS>(Space, league_size, team_size [, vector_length])
```

TeamPolicy defines an execution policy for a 1D iteration space starting at begin and going to end with an open interval. 

See also: [TeamMember](TeamHandleConcept)

## Synopsis 
```c++
template<class ... Args>
class Kokkos::TeamPolicy {
    using execution_policy = TeamPolicy;

    //Inherited from PolicyTraits<Args...>  
    using execution_space   = PolicyTraits<Args...>::execution_space; 
    using schedule_type     = PolicyTraits<Args...>::schedule_type; 
    using work_tag          = PolicyTraits<Args...>::work_tag; 
    using index_type        = PolicyTraits<Args...>::index_type; 
    using iteration_pattern = PolicyTraits<Args...>::iteration_pattern; 
    using launch_bounds     = PolicyTraits<Args...>::launch_bounds;

    using member_type = TeamMemberType<execution_space>;

    //Constructors
    TeamPolicy(const TeamPolicy&) = default;
    TeamPolicy(TeamPolicy&&) = default;

    TeamPolicy();

    template<class ... Args>
    TeamPolicy( const typename traits::execution_space & work_space
              , const index_type league_size
              , const index_type team_size
              , const index_type vector_length = 1);

    template<class ... Args>
    TeamPolicy( const index_type league_size
              , const index_type team_size
              , const index_type vector_length = 1);

    TeamPolicy& operator = (const TeamPolicy&) = default;

    
    // set chunk_size to a discrete value
    TeamPolicy& set_chunk_size(int chunk);
    // set scratch size for per-team and/or per-thread
    TeamPolicy& set_scratch_size(const int& level, const Impl::PerTeamValue& per_team);
    TeamPolicy& set_scratch_size(const int& level, const Impl::PerThreadValue& per_thread);
    TeamPolicy& set_scratch_size(const int& level, const Impl::PerTeamValue& per_team, const Impl::PerThreadValue& per_thread);
    TeamPolicy& set_scratch_size(const int& level, const Impl::PerThreadValue& per_thread, const Impl::PerTeamValue& per_team);

    // querying configuration limits
    template<class FunctorType>
    int team_size_max(const FunctorType& f, const ParallelForTag&) const;
    template<class FunctorType>
    int team_size_max(const FunctorType& f, const ParallelReduceTag&) const;
    template<class FunctorType>
    int team_size_recommended(const FunctorType& f, const ParallelForTag&) const;
    template<class FunctorType>
    int team_size_recommended(const FunctorType& f, const ParallelReduceTag&) const;
    static int vector_length_max(); 
    static int scratch_size_max(int level); 

    // querying configuration settings
    int team_size() const;
    int league_size() const;
    int scratch_size(int level, int team_size_ = -1) const;
    int team_scratch_size(int level) const;
    int thread_scratch_size(int level) const;
    int chunk_size() const;

    // return ExecSpace instance provided to the constructor
    KOKKOS_INLINE_FUNCTION const typename traits::execution_space & space() const;
};
```

## Parameters:

### Common Arguments for all Execution Policies

  * Execution Policies generally accept compile time arguments via template parameters and runtime parameters via constructor arguments or setter functions.
  * Template arguments can be given in arbitrary order.

| Argument | Options | Purpose |
| --- | --- | --- |
| ExecutionSpace | `Serial`, `OpenMP`, `Threads`, `Cuda`, `HIP`, `SYCL`, `HPX` | Specify the Execution Space to execute the kernel in. Defaults to `Kokkos::DefaultExecutionSpace`. |
| Schedule | `Schedule<Dynamic>`, `Schedule<Static>` | Specify scheduling policy for work items. `Dynamic` scheduling is implemented through a work stealing queue. Default is machine and backend specific. |
| IndexType | `IndexType<int>` | Specify integer type to be used for traversing the iteration space. Defaults to `int64_t`. |
| LaunchBounds | `LaunchBounds<MaxThreads, MinBlocks>` | Specifies hints to to the compiler about CUDA/HIP launch bounds. |
| WorkTag | `SomeClass` | Specify the work tag type used to call the functor operator. Any arbitrary type defaults to `void`. |

### Requirements:

## Public Class Members

### Constructors
 
 * ```c++
   TeamPolicy()
   ```
   Default Constructor uninitialized policy.
 
 * ```c++
   TeamPolicy(index_type league_size, index_type team_size [, index_type vector_length])
   ```
   Request to launch `league_size` work items, each of which is assigned to a team of threads with `team_size` threads, using a vector length of `vector_length`.
   If the team size is not possible when calling a parallel policy, that kernel launch may throw. 
 
 * ```c++
   TeamPolicy(index_type league_size, Impl::AUTO_t [, index_type vector_length])
   ```
   Request to launch `league_size` work items, each of which is assigned to a team of threads of a size determined by Kokkos, using a vector length of `vector_length`.
   The team size may be determined lazily at launch time, taking into account properties of the functor.

 * ```c++
   TeamPolicy(execution space, index_type league_size, index_type team_size [, index_type vector_length])
   ```
   Request to launch `league_size` work items, each of which is assigned to a team of threads with `team_size` threads, using a vector length of `vector_length`.
   If the team size is not possible when calling a parallel policy, that kernel launch may throw. 
   Use the provided execution space instance during a kernel launch.  

 * ```c++
   TeamPolicy(execution_space space, index_type league_size, Impl::AUTO_t [, index_type vector_length])
   ```
   Request to launch `league_size` work items, each of which is assigned to a team of threads of a size determined by Kokkos, using a vector length of `vector_length`.
   The team size may be determined lazily at launch time, taking into account properties of the functor.
   Use the provided execution space instance during a kernel launch.  

### Runtime Settings

  * ```c++
    inline TeamPolicy& set_chunk_size(int chunk);
    ```
    Set the chunk size. Each physical team of threads will get assigned `chunk` consecutive teams. Default is 1.
    
    Returns: reference to `*this`

  * ```c++
    inline TeamPolicy& set_scratch_size(const int& level, const Impl::PerTeamValue& per_team);
    inline TeamPolicy& set_scratch_size(const int& level, const Impl::PerThreadValue& per_thread);
    inline TeamPolicy& set_scratch_size(const int& level, const Impl::PerTeamValue& per_team, const Impl::PerThreadValue& per_thread);
    inline TeamPolicy& set_scratch_size(const int& level, const Impl::PerThreadValue& per_thread, const Impl::PerTeamValue& per_team);
    ```
    Set the per team and per thread scratch size. 
    * `level`: set the storage level. 0 is closest cache. 1 is closest storage (e.g. high bandwidth memory)
    * `per_team`: wrapper for the per team size of scratch in bytes. Returned by the function `PerTeam(int)`.
    * `per_thread`: wrapper for the per thread size of scratch in bytes. Returned by the function `PerThread(int)`.
    One can set the scratch size for level 0 and 1 independently by calling the function twice. 
    Subsequent calls with the same level overwrite the previous value. 
    
    Returns: reference to `*this`

### Query Limits of Runtime Settings

  * ```c++
    template<class FunctorType>
    int team_size_max(const FunctorType& f, const ParallelForTag&) const;
    template<class FunctorType>
    int team_size_max(const FunctorType& f, const ParallelReduceTag&) const;
    ```
    Query the maximum team size possible given a specific functor. 
    The tag denotes whether this is for a [`parallel_for`](../parallel-dispatch/parallel_for) or a [`parallel_reduce`](../parallel-dispatch/parallel_reduce).
    Note: this is not a static function! The function will take into account settings
    for vector length and scratch size of `*this`. Using a value larger than the 
    return value will result in dispatch failure. 

    Returns: The maximum value for `team_size` allowed to be given to be used with an
    otherwise identical `TeamPolicy` for dispatching the functor `f`.
    
  * ```c++
    template<class FunctorType>
    int team_size_recommended(const FunctorType& f, const ParallelForTag&) const;
    template<class FunctorType>
    int team_size_recommended(const FunctorType& f, const ParallelReduceTag&) const;
    ```
    Query the recommended team size for the specific functor `f`. 
    The tag denotes whether this is for a [`parallel_for`](../parallel-dispatch/parallel_for) or a [`parallel_reduce`](../parallel-dispatch/parallel_reduce).
    Note: this is not a static function! The function will take into account settings
    for vector length and scratch size of `*this`.

    Returns: The recommended value for `team_size` to be given to be used with an
    otherwise identical `TeamPolicy` for dispatching the functor `f`.

  * ```c++
    static int vector_length_max(); 
    ```
    Returns: the maximum valid value for vector length.

  * ```c++
    static int scratch_size_max(int level); 
    ```
    Returns: the maximum total scratch size in bytes, for the given level. 

### Query Runtime Settings

  * ```c++
    int team_size() const;
    ```
    Returns: the requested team size.

  * ```c++
    int league_size() const;
    ```
    Returns: the requested league size.

  * ```c++
    int scratch_size(int level, int team_size_ = -1) const;
    ```
    This function returns the total scratch size requested. If `team_size` is not provided, the 
    team size for the calculation is used from the internal setting (i.e. the result of calling
    `this->team_size()`). Otherwise, the provided team size is used. 
 
    Returns: the value for the total scratch size in bytes  in the specified scratch level.

  * ```c++
    int team_scratch_size(int level) const;
    ```
    Returns: the value for the per team scratch size in bytes  in the specified scratch level.

  * ```c++
    int thread_scratch_size(int level) const;
    ```
    Returns: the value for the per thread scratch size in bytes in the specified scratch level.

  * ```c++
    int chunk_size() const;
    ```
    Returns: the chunk size, set via `set_chunk_size()`.
## Examples

```c++
TeamPolicy<> policy_1(N,AUTO);
TeamPolicy<Cuda> policy_2(N,T);
TeamPolicy<Schedule<Dynamic>, OpenMP> policy_3(N,AUTO,8);
TeamPolicy<IndexType<int>, Schedule<Dynamic>> policy_4(N,1,4);
TeamPolicy<OpenMP> policy_5(OpenMP(), N, AUTO);
```

Commit message:

Note limitations of TeamPolicy::scratch_size_max

docs/source/API/core/policies/TeamPolicy.md, after:

# `TeamPolicy`

Header File: `Kokkos_Core.hpp`

Usage: 
```c++
Kokkos::TeamPolicy<>( league_size, team_size [, vector_length])
Kokkos::TeamPolicy<ARGS>(league_size, team_size [, vector_length])
Kokkos::TeamPolicy<>(Space, league_size, team_size [, vector_length])
Kokkos::TeamPolicy<ARGS>(Space, league_size, team_size [, vector_length])
```

TeamPolicy defines an execution policy for a 1D iteration space starting at begin and going to end with an open interval. 

See also: [TeamMember](TeamHandleConcept)

## Synopsis 
```c++
template<class ... Args>
class Kokkos::TeamPolicy {
    using execution_policy = TeamPolicy;

    //Inherited from PolicyTraits<Args...>  
    using execution_space   = PolicyTraits<Args...>::execution_space; 
    using schedule_type     = PolicyTraits<Args...>::schedule_type; 
    using work_tag          = PolicyTraits<Args...>::work_tag; 
    using index_type        = PolicyTraits<Args...>::index_type; 
    using iteration_pattern = PolicyTraits<Args...>::iteration_pattern; 
    using launch_bounds     = PolicyTraits<Args...>::launch_bounds;

    using member_type = TeamMemberType<execution_space>;

    //Constructors
    TeamPolicy(const TeamPolicy&) = default;
    TeamPolicy(TeamPolicy&&) = default;

    TeamPolicy();

    template<class ... Args>
    TeamPolicy( const typename traits::execution_space & work_space
              , const index_type league_size
              , const index_type team_size
              , const index_type vector_length = 1);

    template<class ... Args>
    TeamPolicy( const index_type league_size
              , const index_type team_size
              , const index_type vector_length = 1);

    TeamPolicy& operator = (const TeamPolicy&) = default;

    
    // set chunk_size to a discrete value
    TeamPolicy& set_chunk_size(int chunk);
    // set scratch size for per-team and/or per-thread
    TeamPolicy& set_scratch_size(const int& level, const Impl::PerTeamValue& per_team);
    TeamPolicy& set_scratch_size(const int& level, const Impl::PerThreadValue& per_thread);
    TeamPolicy& set_scratch_size(const int& level, const Impl::PerTeamValue& per_team, const Impl::PerThreadValue& per_thread);
    TeamPolicy& set_scratch_size(const int& level, const Impl::PerThreadValue& per_thread, const Impl::PerTeamValue& per_team);

    // querying configuration limits
    template<class FunctorType>
    int team_size_max(const FunctorType& f, const ParallelForTag&) const;
    template<class FunctorType>
    int team_size_max(const FunctorType& f, const ParallelReduceTag&) const;
    template<class FunctorType>
    int team_size_recommended(const FunctorType& f, const ParallelForTag&) const;
    template<class FunctorType>
    int team_size_recommended(const FunctorType& f, const ParallelReduceTag&) const;
    static int vector_length_max(); 
    static int scratch_size_max(int level); 

    // querying configuration settings
    int team_size() const;
    int league_size() const;
    int scratch_size(int level, int team_size_ = -1) const;
    int team_scratch_size(int level) const;
    int thread_scratch_size(int level) const;
    int chunk_size() const;

    // return ExecSpace instance provided to the constructor
    KOKKOS_INLINE_FUNCTION const typename traits::execution_space & space() const;
};
```

## Parameters:

### Common Arguments for all Execution Policies

  * Execution Policies generally accept compile time arguments via template parameters and runtime parameters via constructor arguments or setter functions.
  * Template arguments can be given in arbitrary order.

| Argument | Options | Purpose |
| --- | --- | --- |
| ExecutionSpace | `Serial`, `OpenMP`, `Threads`, `Cuda`, `HIP`, `SYCL`, `HPX` | Specify the Execution Space to execute the kernel in. Defaults to `Kokkos::DefaultExecutionSpace`. |
| Schedule | `Schedule<Dynamic>`, `Schedule<Static>` | Specify scheduling policy for work items. `Dynamic` scheduling is implemented through a work stealing queue. Default is machine and backend specific. |
| IndexType | `IndexType<int>` | Specify integer type to be used for traversing the iteration space. Defaults to `int64_t`. |
| LaunchBounds | `LaunchBounds<MaxThreads, MinBlocks>` | Specifies hints to to the compiler about CUDA/HIP launch bounds. |
| WorkTag | `SomeClass` | Specify the work tag type used to call the functor operator. Any arbitrary type defaults to `void`. |

### Requirements:

## Public Class Members

### Constructors
 
 * ```c++
   TeamPolicy()
   ```
   Default Constructor uninitialized policy.
 
 * ```c++
   TeamPolicy(index_type league_size, index_type team_size [, index_type vector_length])
   ```
   Request to launch `league_size` work items, each of which is assigned to a team of threads with `team_size` threads, using a vector length of `vector_length`.
   If the team size is not possible when calling a parallel policy, that kernel launch may throw. 
 
 * ```c++
   TeamPolicy(index_type league_size, Impl::AUTO_t [, index_type vector_length])
   ```
   Request to launch `league_size` work items, each of which is assigned to a team of threads of a size determined by Kokkos, using a vector length of `vector_length`.
   The team size may be determined lazily at launch time, taking into account properties of the functor.

 * ```c++
   TeamPolicy(execution space, index_type league_size, index_type team_size [, index_type vector_length])
   ```
   Request to launch `league_size` work items, each of which is assigned to a team of threads with `team_size` threads, using a vector length of `vector_length`.
   If the team size is not possible when calling a parallel policy, that kernel launch may throw. 
   Use the provided execution space instance during a kernel launch.  

 * ```c++
   TeamPolicy(execution_space space, index_type league_size, Impl::AUTO_t [, index_type vector_length])
   ```
   Request to launch `league_size` work items, each of which is assigned to a team of threads of a size determined by Kokkos, using a vector length of `vector_length`.
   The team size may be determined lazily at launch time, taking into account properties of the functor.
   Use the provided execution space instance during a kernel launch.  

### Runtime Settings

  * ```c++
    inline TeamPolicy& set_chunk_size(int chunk);
    ```
    Set the chunk size. Each physical team of threads will get assigned `chunk` consecutive teams. Default is 1.
    
    Returns: reference to `*this`

  * ```c++
    inline TeamPolicy& set_scratch_size(const int& level, const Impl::PerTeamValue& per_team);
    inline TeamPolicy& set_scratch_size(const int& level, const Impl::PerThreadValue& per_thread);
    inline TeamPolicy& set_scratch_size(const int& level, const Impl::PerTeamValue& per_team, const Impl::PerThreadValue& per_thread);
    inline TeamPolicy& set_scratch_size(const int& level, const Impl::PerThreadValue& per_thread, const Impl::PerTeamValue& per_team);
    ```
    Set the per team and per thread scratch size. 
    * `level`: set the storage level. 0 is closest cache. 1 is closest storage (e.g. high bandwidth memory)
    * `per_team`: wrapper for the per team size of scratch in bytes. Returned by the function `PerTeam(int)`.
    * `per_thread`: wrapper for the per thread size of scratch in bytes. Returned by the function `PerThread(int)`.
    One can set the scratch size for level 0 and 1 independently by calling the function twice. 
    Subsequent calls with the same level overwrite the previous value. 
    
    Returns: reference to `*this`

### Query Limits of Runtime Settings

  * ```c++
    template<class FunctorType>
    int team_size_max(const FunctorType& f, const ParallelForTag&) const;
    template<class FunctorType>
    int team_size_max(const FunctorType& f, const ParallelReduceTag&) const;
    ```
    Query the maximum team size possible given a specific functor. 
    The tag denotes whether this is for a [`parallel_for`](../parallel-dispatch/parallel_for) or a [`parallel_reduce`](../parallel-dispatch/parallel_reduce).
    Note: this is not a static function! The function will take into account settings
    for vector length and scratch size of `*this`. Using a value larger than the 
    return value will result in dispatch failure. 

    Returns: The maximum value for `team_size` allowed to be given to be used with an
    otherwise identical `TeamPolicy` for dispatching the functor `f`.
    
  * ```c++
    template<class FunctorType>
    int team_size_recommended(const FunctorType& f, const ParallelForTag&) const;
    template<class FunctorType>
    int team_size_recommended(const FunctorType& f, const ParallelReduceTag&) const;
    ```
    Query the recommended team size for the specific functor `f`. 
    The tag denotes whether this is for a [`parallel_for`](../parallel-dispatch/parallel_for) or a [`parallel_reduce`](../parallel-dispatch/parallel_reduce).
    Note: this is not a static function! The function will take into account settings
    for vector length and scratch size of `*this`.

    Returns: The recommended value for `team_size` to be given to be used with an
    otherwise identical `TeamPolicy` for dispatching the functor `f`.

  * ```c++
    static int vector_length_max(); 
    ```
    Returns: the maximum valid value for vector length.

  * ```c++
    static int scratch_size_max(int level); 
    ```
    Returns: the maximum total scratch size in bytes, for the given level. Note: If a kernel performs
    team-level reductions or scan operations, not all of this memory will be available for dynamic
    user requests. Some of that maximal scratch size is being used for internal operations. The
    actual size of these internal allocations depends on the value type used in the reduction or scan.

### Query Runtime Settings

  * ```c++
    int team_size() const;
    ```
    Returns: the requested team size.

  * ```c++
    int league_size() const;
    ```
    Returns: the requested league size.

  * ```c++
    int scratch_size(int level, int team_size_ = -1) const;
    ```
    This function returns the total scratch size requested. If `team_size` is not provided, the 
    team size for the calculation is used from the internal setting (i.e. the result of calling
    `this->team_size()`). Otherwise, the provided team size is used. 
 
    Returns: the value for the total scratch size in bytes  in the specified scratch level.

  * ```c++
    int team_scratch_size(int level) const;
    ```
    Returns: the value for the per team scratch size in bytes  in the specified scratch level.

  * ```c++
    int thread_scratch_size(int level) const;
    ```
    Returns: the value for the per thread scratch size in bytes in the specified scratch level.

  * ```c++
    int chunk_size() const;
    ```
    Returns: the chunk size, set via `set_chunk_size()`.
## Examples

```c++
TeamPolicy<> policy_1(N,AUTO);
TeamPolicy<Cuda> policy_2(N,T);
TeamPolicy<Schedule<Dynamic>, OpenMP> policy_3(N,AUTO,8);
TeamPolicy<IndexType<int>, Schedule<Dynamic>> policy_4(N,1,4);
TeamPolicy<OpenMP> policy_5(OpenMP(), N, AUTO);
```
