docs/source/API/core/initialize_finalize/finalize.rst, before:

``finalize``
============

.. role::cpp(code)
    :language: cpp

Defined in header ``<Kokkos_Core.hpp>``

Usage:

.. code-block:: cpp

    Kokkos::finalize();

Terminates the Kokkos execution environment.
This functions cleans up all Kokkos states and released the associated
resources.
Once this function is called, no Kokkos API functions (not even
`Kokkos::initialize <initialize.html#kokkosinitialize>`_) may be called, except for
``Kokkos::is_initialized`` or ``Kokkos::is_finalized``.
The user must ensure that all Kokkos objects (e.g. ``Kokkos::View``) are detroyed
before ``Kokkos::finalize`` gets called.

Programs are ill-formed if they do not call this function after calling `Kokkos::initialize <initialize.html#kokkosinitialize>`_.

Interface
---------

.. code-block:: cpp

    Kokkos::finalize();

Requirements
~~~~~~~~~~~~
* ``Kokkos::finalize`` must be called before ``MPI_Finalize`` if Kokkos is used in an MPI context.
* ``Kokkos::finalize`` must be called after user initialized Kokkos objects are out of scope.

Semantics
~~~~~~~~~

* ``Kokkos::is_initialized()`` should return false after calling ``Kokkos::finalize``

Example
~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: cpp

    #include <Kokkos_Core.hpp>

    int main(int argc, char* argv[]) {
        Kokkos::initialize(argc, argv);
        {  // scope to ensure that my_view destructor is called before Kokkos::finalize
            Kokkos::View<double*> my_view("my_view", 10);
        }  // scope of my_view ends here
        Kokkos::finalize();
    }

Commit message:

Document `Kokkos::push_finalize_hook` (#488)
* Document Kokkos::push_finalize_hook

* Update docs/source/API/core/initialize_finalize/push_finalize_hook.rst

Co-authored-by: Daniel Arndt <arndtd@ornl.gov>

* Attempt to fix warning `Duplicate explicit target name: "kokkos::initialize"`

---------

Co-authored-by: Daniel Arndt <arndtd@ornl.gov>

docs/source/API/core/initialize_finalize/finalize.rst, after:

``finalize``
============

.. role::cpp(code)
    :language: cpp

Defined in header ``<Kokkos_Core.hpp>``

Usage:

.. code-block:: cpp

    Kokkos::finalize();

Terminates the Kokkos execution environment.
This functions cleans up all Kokkos states and released the associated
resources.
Once this function is called, no Kokkos API functions (not even
`Kokkos::initialize <initialize.html>`_) may be called, except for
``Kokkos::is_initialized`` or ``Kokkos::is_finalized``.
The user must ensure that all Kokkos objects (e.g. ``Kokkos::View``) are detroyed
before ``Kokkos::finalize`` gets called.

Programs are ill-formed if they do not call this function after calling `Kokkos::initialize <initialize.html>`_.

Interface
---------

.. code-block:: cpp

    Kokkos::finalize();

Requirements
~~~~~~~~~~~~
* ``Kokkos::finalize`` must be called before ``MPI_Finalize`` if Kokkos is used in an MPI context.
* ``Kokkos::finalize`` must be called after user initialized Kokkos objects are out of scope.

Semantics
~~~~~~~~~

* ``Kokkos::is_initialized()`` should return false after calling ``Kokkos::finalize``

Example
~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: cpp

    #include <Kokkos_Core.hpp>

    int main(int argc, char* argv[]) {
        Kokkos::initialize(argc, argv);
        {  // scope to ensure that my_view destructor is called before Kokkos::finalize
            Kokkos::View<double*> my_view("my_view", 10);
        }  // scope of my_view ends here
        Kokkos::finalize();
    }


See also
--------
* `Kokkos::initialize <initialize.html>`_: initializes the Kokkos execution environment
* `Kokkos::push_finalize_hook <push_finalize_hook.html>`_: registers a function to be called on ``Kokkos::finalize()`` invocation
